---
title: >-
  Curry
description: >-
  A memorial post about Curry, our beloved cat for the last 12 years.
---

Back in February 2024, Curry almost died. She had stopped eating, stopped
drinking, and stopped moving. She just sat in her favorite chair (the papasan).
She had a routine checkup a week earlier where she looked totally fine. The vet
diagnosed her with pancreatitis and either IBD or lymphoma, a type of cancer.

![](/blog/curry/2012-dec.webp)

**One of the earliest pictures we have of Curry, take a month after adopting
her.**

She had always had minor issues with vomiting, especially after meals, but she
was an otherwise healthy cat. The vet prescribed prednisolone, a steroid, as the
primary drug to keep her comfortable for the rest of her life. We didn't choose
to have a biopsy performed to differentiate between IBD or lymphoma---because
it's invasive---and the treatment for both ailments is largely the same. The key
difference is how much longer she would live depending on which it was.

![](/blog/curry/2013-jan.webp)

**January 2013, Curry displays her loved for sitting on people wearing denim.**

Curry was a very silly and spicy cat. She wasn't mean, but she liked to play
rough, and she wasn't one for cuddling. She did like sitting on laps, but pretty
much only if the person was wearing jeans lol. She would often sleep on Ash,
though. I think she was very picky about what fabric she sat on.

![](/blog/curry/high.webp)

**When Curry was young and we still lived in our apartment, she would jump from
the counter to the refrigerator and then run along the top of the cabinets.**

Ash and I adopted Curry in November 2012, when she was just a year and a half.
She had been surrendered to the Humane Society because her previous owner's
house burned down and they couldn't take care of her any more. Her name was
listed as "Shadow", which I had assumed was ironic.

![](/blog/curry/aliens.webp)

**Curry loved to stare up at the skylight in our bedroom---presumably at her own
reflection---but we always said she was looking up at aliens.**

Well, "Shadow" was very clearly not an ironic name, but a behavioral one.

![](/blog/curry/elegant.webp)

**I furnished this "floor" of my shelf with a blanket so Curry could relax on
high with a window view while spending time with me in my office. She's doing a
classic elegant pose, too.**

![](/blog/curry/eyes.webp)

**Ever the sunbeam baby, her eyes are glowing in this picture.**

![](/blog/curry/fireplace.webp)

**Curry was only able to enjoy the fireplace for one Winter in our new house, as
it currently needs to be fixed. She was glued to it while it was on, though.
Cats love their heat sources.**

![](/blog/curry/grass.webp)

**Strangely, Curry was obsessed with eating grass. She didn't care about the
outdoors much besides the ability to eat grass. She would throw it up, but she
always wanted more.**

![](/blog/curry/meow.webp)

**Curry loved to lay on my deskpad, right next to my hand. She would nudge me,
asking to be pet. She made such a mess of the fabric with her fur, but it was
adorable how much she loved me and wanted my attention.**

![](/blog/curry/near.webp)

**I love how much fur detail was captured in this photo.**

![](/blog/curry/silly-face.webp)

**This might be the silliest face she ever made.**

![](/blog/curry/squirrel.webp)

**Curry loved when I fed the squirrels. I trained the squirrels that it was safe
to come near our screen door when it was shut, even when Curry was right on the
other side. She even pounced at the door once lol.**

![](/blog/curry/staring.webp)

**Who knows what's she was staring at here.**

![](/blog/curry/sun.webp)

**Our old house had a sun room and Curry basically lived in that room.**

![](/blog/curry/the-pose.webp)

**An early photo of Curry showing off her classic pose. She loved to show me her
tummy and paws.**

![](/blog/curry/vent.webp)

**Curry loved heat vents and posing for the camera.**

![](/blog/curry/art.webp)

**[Tulip](https://platinumtulip.net/) was able to perfectly capture Curry's
little goblin energy in this image.**

![](/blog/curry/us.webp)

**I don't have very many good pictures of me and Curry in the same frame, but I
like this one.**
