---
title: "Linearity in video games"
description:
  "A brief reflection on the Legend of Zelda, and the dying trend of linear
  video games."
tags:
  - "video-games"
---

_Originally posted 2023 June 2 on Cohost._

im thinking ill try to beat tears of the kingdom this weekend

> what are some games channeling 2D Zelda energy i should know about?

## look out, here comes some Thoughts about TOTK

like BOTW before this game could obviously be played for hundreds of hours, but
i dont think i have the energy. maybe it's too much too soon. maybe my tastes
have changed. i can clearly see how nintendo has really analyzed "flow state"
and optimized BOTW and TOTK to keep you in them as long as possible. i miss
older zelda games

## i miss older zelda games

i just wish this wasn't at the cost of like... what i used to love about zelda.
having more rigid puzzle rooms and the intricacies of dungeons. boss fights that
were tough and rewarding. constantly earning new abilities. both BOTW and TOTK
give you basically everything right out of the gate, and the only thing you
could really add later on is... knowledge about how to wield your existing
tools. this is cool but not as cool to me. i love collecting the new loot from
every dungeon in older Zelda games, and i love how the rigid order of dungeons
meant that each dungeon could build upon the last. linearity...

## linearity...

modern game design is so scared of linearity, but i think a linear level
structure connected to a larger world that can be explored is a fantastic
formula, and it pains me to see zelda throw out its fantastic formula for
another one that doesn't please me as much. im happy for all the people that
love BOTW/TOTK but i just keep wishing they were different kinds of games (in
particular, 2D Zeldas like LTTP, OOA, OOS, or LA) indie scene?

## indie scene?

we've seen the "metroidvania" genre explode in the indie scene, but i'm not sure
there's that many zelda-likes? i was "ok" on Ittle Dew, but not enough to bother
with the sequel. and Blossom Tales was pretty good, though i still haven't
gotten around to its sequel.
