---
title: >-
  Sorrow
description: >-
  2024 has been a bad year for me, and November was the hardest month of my
  life. A post about the death of a close friend, the death of our family pet,
  chronic pain, and the US presidential election.
---

## November

Even on a good year, I don't like November. It's cold. The days are short. I've
never really liked Thanksgiving as a holiday. I'll credit that in part to having
divorced parents, and all the fun of being shuffled around as a shared resource,
and never being close with extended family in general. But today's post isn't
about my poor extended family relationships or childhood problems.

## Pain

November 2023 is when my chronic pain began. A year later, I don't feel
especially closer to knowing what's wrong with me or how to fix it. I had
anxiety so bad I had to go to urgent care and get my heart checked. It was just
anxiety, not heart problems, thankfully.

I've had surgery to attempt to alleviate my chronic nasal congestion (inferior
turbinate reduction + frontal sinus balloon expansion), but I still struggle
with congestion, especially in the mornings. I haven't had a fully pain free day
since early November 2023 at best. Living life with chronic headaches has been
extremely challenging, especially when _looking at computer screens_ (central to
my job and my hobbies) makes it worse.

The last medical advice I got was from the 2nd ENT doctor I've seen. He said I
probably have chronic migraines, and the problem could stem from the trigeminal
nerve. I tried gabapentin (a nerve pain drug) for a while, but it didn't fix me,
and it was just a temporary prescription.

The next step was to see a neurologist. I'm horrible at scheduling medical
appointments, so I wasted some time before moving forward with this. And then
when I finally got the appointment locked in, it was for a date over half a year
from that point. I will see a neurologist 27 March 2025.

Perhaps I'll write more about this in the future, especially if/when I learn
more about my condition.

## Trump

I was prepared for this possibility, but of course that doesn't make it not
hurt. I'm scared for what fresh hell our most vulnerable populations will be
subjected to. I don't have much else to say about this right now.

## Cory

Cory was one of my closest friends. He passed away on 6 November 2024
(Wednesday). I learned what happened on Saturday. Another group of friends went
to visit his house before we did. Our close friend and former roommate of many
years, Trevor, came over to our house to deliver the news. But I already knew
what it meant as soon as he said he needed to talk. I was living in denial
because of Cory's established pattern of cutting communication for days at a
time without notice.

My partner, Ash, was best friends with Cory. They worked together shortly after
we moved to Portland in 2012. They founded an LLC and released a video game
together. Eventually they joined a health care startup as the first two
non-founder employees. They worked together for over 7 years. Cory was an
amazing influence on Ash and a great friend.

![](/blog/sorrow/cory/wizards.webp)

**_Wizards_ by Ralph Bakshi, one of Cory's favorite movies.**

We hung out many times, going over to each other's houses, going to karaoke,
going out for food, watching movies, etc. Our relationship really deepened
during the darkness of November 2020, after many months of isolation due to the
COVID-19 pandemic. It was in early November that year that _Destiny 2: Beyond
Light_ was released. I should write more about Destiny some time and what it has
meant to me over the years, but the short version is that I spent a few hundred
hours playing the game and really enjoying it, before our previous group
disbanded.

Destiny is at its core a 3 player game... and Ash and I still liked it! We just
didn't have a 3rd player, so it was dormant in our lives for years. After
completing our previous 3 player co-op game (the first _Remnant_ game, as I
recall), I think I was the one who proposed, half-jokingly, what if we got Cory
into Destiny?

Well, Cory loved it. He had never played before, but he took too it quicker than
I expected, for such an obtuse and divisive game. Hell, he was playing more than
me and Ash combined for a while. We did the whole new campaign together, but
that was only the beginning. I've now accumulated over 3,000 hours in the game.
Actually, I just checked, and Cory's account still has 100 more hours than me at
time of writing. This was the core place I bonded with Cory over multiple years.
We played campaign missions (including the legendary difficulty), Nightfalls,
Crucible, Gambit, a few Raids, and a lot of Dungeons. Looking at Cory's account,
he finished all 9 unique Dungeons in the game, for a total of 96 clears and 158
hours of playtime.

![](/blog/sorrow/cory/transcendent.webp)

**We spent countless hours playing together to become "Transcendent".**

We conquered many of these Dungeons with little or no outside assistance, using
our wits and observational skills to learn boss mechanics and optimize our DPS.
As triumphant as these dungeon runs were, the best moments were simply grinding
and talking. We would chat about anything and everything for hours while doing
Destiny's silly menial tasks in hopes of reward. Or we wouldn't! One of the
remarkable things about friendship is just... existing besides someone else.
Watching TV together, reading in the same room, or in this case, just brain off
gaming together.

To some it may sound cheesy, but this time was really important to me. I loved
spending time together as our fireteam trio just as much as I loved playing the
game. It was truly my second place, and I was happy to be adventuring with Cory
and shooting the breeze (and the aliens) often multiple times per week together.

![](/blog/sorrow/cory/webfishing.webp)

**WEBFISHING was a nice relaxing break from Destiny.**

Being "just" friends with Cory, not family, we were worried that we might not
get much closure from this. Fortunately, Cory's father and aunt arrived to help
take care of things. We met them for the first time at Cory's house. I wish we
had met under better circumstances, but we all appreciated each other's
presences. We cried a lot. We hugged. We talked. We helped his father learn how
to use 1Password. We still need to go through one of his old computers and save
files we want to keep.

I took the job of calling many of his friends to deliver the news. Each time
felt like tearing my heart open. I'm crying again right now writing this. The
compartmentalization of grief is truly incredible. I've been so busy with other
things I've barely thought about this for days, but I'ma complete mess all over
again writing this.

Cory was one of my closest friends. It's been a month and thinking about this is
once again making my head throb, my nose ache from swelling, and my eyes sting
from all the tears.

Over the past few months our gaming trio had really fallen out of love with
Destiny 2 (and that's mostly Destiny's fault, to be honest). With the scaling
back of that, we'd been on the lookout for the next good co-op game to play
together. We were waiting for the early access release of _Path of Exile 2_.
Unfortunately, it was delayed several months, and it only just came out. We...
didn't get to play it with him. And we never will. I've only logged a few hours
and I'm having a lot of fun, but I really wish Cory could try it.

![](/blog/sorrow/cory/bigtime.webp)

**Cory's dog, Big Time**

I'm going to miss going over to Cory's house. I'm going to miss playing with
Cory's dog. I'm going to miss playing games with him. I'm going to miss making
silly jokes with him. I'm going to miss streaming on Twitch with him. I'm going
to miss cooking with him. I'm going to miss going places with him. I'm going to
miss him.

## Curry

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/2012-dec.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/2013-jan.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/elegant.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/fireplace.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/meow.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/squirrel.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/art.webp)

![](/blog/sorrow/curry/us.webp)

## Furnace
